---
layout: post
title: Week 1 Learning About Open Source Development
---

# My Thoughts About Open Source

- I guess when I hear open source, I immediately think about the codebase being available to all.
  Available to all as in being accessible on demand without restrictions. Based off of the readings, 
  I guess I was somewhat right about what it meant. However, I did note the distinction being free sofware
  versus open source. I personally think open source is great and a number of technologies that everyone uses
  daily would not be possible without some initial base project being open sourced like linux to android.
  Compared to closed source, open source offers people an incentive to contribute to build a community-based
  project that is to benefit all. This doesn't mean, like we discussed in class, that open source will be solely
  used for good. As per the open source guidelines, nothing is stopping someone from doing something nefarious or 
  illegal using open source software since there shall no discrimination against any group using or for what purpose.
  What is illegal is for the courts to decide. Though, open source, again, is amazing for providing otherwise
  perhaps paywall locked closed source software. Also with closed source software, we do not know what is exactly 
  running with it (for all I know there can be a bitcoin miner as discovered with numerous softwares as of late)
  while open source, the users can check out the codebase and see if there is anything else going on. That being said,
  I want to contribute to open source and I found this class as probably a pretty good gateway to learning what I need
  and what I don't need to know about contributing. As a beginner to this, I am grateful such class exists and I hope to
  learn more and be open about new technologies and where open source development takes me!

# Some Open Source Projects That I've used

- Immediately off the top of my head when I hear open source, I think about Asahi linux. As we know, Apple switched to
  their own silicon cpu/gpu/(apu?) chips which is ARM-based and is not very compatible with booting other sofware
  onto their hardware. Asahi linux is an open source project that seeks to create a remixed Fedora distro on M1, M2, etc. 
  Apple silicon chips. I've been following this project a lot as I currently own an M1 mac and am planning on possibly making
  the switch or dual-booting if they eventually get more of their hardware-software connectivity issues fixed (like audio drivers).
  Another open source project, that I actually use daily is Wikipedia. I more or less read Wikipedia for fun, so it's really great
  to see that something like Wikipedia exists and is actually very well maintained and accurate at most times. Another one is React
  which many people use to build the front-end of their websites. I actually used React in my own personal [website](https://bradleyhuang.tech).
  React is pretty great and is maintained by Meta which is great to see since many big tech companies maintain open source
  projects. Lastly, Neovim which is a fork of vim what I use almost daily as a daily driver when I am in the terminal. There's even
  a whole custom GUI scene developed from Neovim depending on the user's usage and needs which I think is really cool and not
  possible without it being open source.