---
layout: post
title: Week 4 Browser Extension and Learning
---

# My thoughts on working in a team setting

- So I ended up finishing my extension "Seshy" with my group and it was a really fun and interesting experience trying to juggle providing good work/code
  and not ending up all doing the same thing among my groupmates. I would say the system we devised where we would communicate and assign tasks was pretty good.
  I was the one to look at all the merges and assign tasks and we split the tasks pretty evenly plus created extra branches so our work wouldn't be conflicted. 
  Learned some code conflict resolution tricks on my IDE this week and found an extension on VScode that simplifies a bit of the process of comparing code. Traditional conflict compare puts the original or changed code in a block while this extension has it on the side to compare which was nice for my visual understanding. For this project, I did a lot of the styling code and the setting the main functions while my group members figured out the browser permissions
  and played around with the skeleton I built for them. I thought this was really interactive as I've never coded in this setting with more than 2 people. Everyone in my group was super responsive and I like communication in a team especially in a clear manner. We used discord as our main form of communcation and realized that github issues is also a great way to keep track of tasks/bugs in our extension. I also learned that I am a good project leader and delegating things is definitely my strong suit. I really enjoyed it and hopefully this will remain the same in 
  the future when we start working in groups on the open source projects.

- This week in terms of personal contributions  I worked on a lot of openstreet map edits especially around the areas that I frequent a lot of updates roads, aligned features, shops, fixed closed down shops, and certain street elements. It's been fun since I start noticing a lot of these things down and started jotting them down on my notepad app on my phone. It's nice to see the map edited in some areas like east side of FiDi near seaport that many people do not update as often. Even on the NYU campus too with all of these hip new restuarants opening I've been taking note and adding them. I was surprised to see how unmaintained Astor Place was with that being a pretty popular area. Shops from years ago were still there but surprisingly the new Wegmans was added onto the map. Overall, been really enjoying these edits.
  
- In terms of the presentations this week my favorite tool was definitely "StudyTool" which plays and adds a side for satisfying videos on youtube.
  I thought the concept was really neat and can genuinely be a good study tool beyond being kind of funny by adding a subway surfer video to your
  browser page. Beyond that, the ticktok extesion is also really practical if someone plans on doing the pomodoro studying method/style.