---
layout: post
title: Week 2 Code Of Conduct
---

# My Thoughts About CoC

- Code of conduct is really important to a projects it helps contributors regarding possible
  issues like conflict resolution, who and where to contact the main contributors of the
  project, and finally set up the general rules. Furthermore, code of conduct is a good way to
  learn the essential values of project.I feel like a lot of people view code of conducts as a 
  way of restricting potential contributors when it is meant to foster a better environment for developers. 
  I think having a code of conduct definitely adds legitimacy to an open source project.
  Personally I would not contribute to a project without a code of conduct as a code of conduct
  sort of sets up the working environment of a project. Without having one, I wouldn't know
  if the project has some sort of toxic setting that would be suitable for most people. Unless,
  the project is super interesting I would consider but it is practically the norm now to have
  a code of conduct on an open source project. Not saying that everyone will follow the code of
  conduct but it is still very good to have. Enforcing something like a CoC is just impossible
  online since CoC isn't law but it can help deter people from potentially doing harm. I guess moderators
  can help like contributors who look at pull/issue/merge requests and see if anything harmful is happening
  that violates their code of conduct.

- During the CoC activity I picked the [blender coc](https://developer.blender.org/docs/handbook/communication/code_of_conduct/#) 
  to look at and it seems very simple which 
  compared to the [Go CoC](https://go.dev/conduct#) that we all looked it which is also simple but much more detailed with
  specific issues like conflict resolutions. Like the Code 
  Covenant's CoC which is very basic, I think every project can adopt something similar and perhaps
  through that we can all foster better development environments for all developers alike!