---
layout: post
title: Week 15 Last Blog Post & Presentation Reflections
---

- The presentations so far have been great. It was wonderful to hear what other groups are up to relative to my group. It was really interesting to see that different FOSS projects really have different ways of communications, contributing, etc.. I was able to present with my group on p5.js on Wednesday this week and it was really fun to compile together this semester's memories basically. From our failed attempts to our success, we were all able to formulate our lessons learned and reflect upon those challenges. On Monday, I thought Godot was really interesting as that was a project I thought was too complicated to contribute too. I was really glad to hear that a group in our class was able to successfully contribute to it. Even they mentioned the complexity of game engines and it was really cool to see people so passionate about a project. Spicetify was also really interesting as they had a really visual project via extending a theme for spoity which is what Spicetify is built for. Open Food Facts was really cool too as they were able to <!--more--> contribute to a project where the main contributors were based out of France. I really liked the freeCodeCamp group's UI overhaul contribution. Gitlab's presentation was definitely the funniest. It was also really interesting to see a massive project like Gitlab's which hosted their repo on a different platform other than Github (obviously on Gitlab haha).

- I am very excited for the last three groups to present on Monday and looking forward to see what they have all done, but overall it's been a great semester. I am grateful for my groupmmates and grateful for the project we chose. I am also most grateful for Professor Klukowska having this class as an elective for CS students at NYU. Open source has been both a humbling and rewarding experience. From the many downs to the many ups, I really do think I learned a lot. Not just programming skills but also communication and that was honestly the most important thing I got out of this class. Learning to communicate effectively can rapidly change one's success rate. I realized being clear, concise got my PRs merged really quickly and often communicating in a convoluted way hindered process. I was also able to apply to this skill to organizing with my group by having everyone meet on time and delegating specific tasks. Though class is going to end I am still looking forward to possibly contributing more to the open source community!