---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Finalizing Project and Working As A Team
---

- After much deliberation and our initial review of scikit-learn, we found that scikit-learn was too daunting and too out of our domain so we switched and decided that we will pick p5.js as our main project to contribute to. We chose p5.js as most of us (except one) are sufficient in javascript and p5.js is mainly a JS project. Furthermore, it seems that p5.js's contributors are pretty active and code is reviewed decently in time for us to make PRs. The community seems nice too as their mission to make coding accessible and inclusive which is quite a commendable mission.

<!--more--> 

- In terms of actual group work, right before break we decided to all set up our environments on our laptops (and desktops) and made sure that it can at least run. We ran into a couple of issues on some devices but decided to resolve those after break. We also now set a consistent meeting time of every alternate Tuesday and Friday on top of in class time. I am extremely excited to see what we can do and achieve especially since we actually all like p5.js's mission statement as a team.

- After half a semester of learning the ins-and-outs of open source projects and open source contributing, I am glad that I can finally apply these skills and knowledge into an actual project that I am interested in. For p5.js, they are entering p5.js 2.0 and my team is planning to create proposals (they are accepting idea proposals on their issues) specifically regarding accesibility. We plan to research after spring break and write an entire detail proposal on top of making changes depending on community feedback. Our basic ideas right now from our meeting are features that can help improve physical impairments experiences or something related to their very barebones web editor/ide.