---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Open Source in the Industry
---

- The "How InnerSource can accelerate culture change" is really interesting as it highlights the elements of open-sourcing that is fundementally good for all software development. Innersourcing which was highlighted in the video is essentially applying open sourcing methods to properietary software in organizations. Innersourcing using open source methods helps communication and builds community that may allow them to edge out the competition. This is really interesting as it essentially prepares companies to invest in OSPOs as these people who do innersourcing will also know the methods/ways of opensourcing which the video talks about. This serves as a <!--more-->  key transition point for perhaps private companies or organizations to invest in open source development because they know that open sourcing methods like their innersourced ones improves code quality.

- Furthemore, this connection between industry and open source projects is also intriguing through OSPOs. The video with Dave Neary, Nithya Ruff, and Gil Yehuda (who had a talk in our class!) regarding OSPOs is truly eyeopening as it showed me a different side open source development specifically one that is funded by more traditional companies. Originally, I thought OSPOs were only in more modern companies like Meta or Google but it was genuinely surprised to find out that traditional sectors from banking (like Yehuda's workplace, U.S. Bank) and telecommunications like Ruff's workplace at Comcast invested heavily into OSPOs and open source projects. Both Comcast and US Bank relies on open source projects heavily and it directly helps their business if they have OSPOs that contribute to the projects that they use. These traditional industries adopting open source projects is also good in that it allows them to use an existing project that can bring software or products out to market faster with quality code. Then with these projects this obviously creates a cycle where the company that uses the open source project will want to fund it for its continued support and existence hence the existence of OSPOs. I found this to be really cool as I didn't expect traditional sectors to adopt this but it makes sense after hearing Ruff and Yehuda explain the economics behind open source projects at their respective companies.

- In terms of group work, we've been making steady progress. We all have in a way contributed through code and issues reports. We are tackling currently a feature implementation for p5.js's 2.0 and we have been assigned it (per the first come first serve basis on the project). The entire group is working on one fork right now for that implementation for that. Mathew and I have submitted PRs already so we're just waiting for praying that our PRs get merged. One of the main contributors of the project have been assigned to review both of our PRs by the project lead so hopefully it goes well. I guess the biggest suprise so far is how slow the project is moving relative to when we did the project evaluation but it is understandable once we found out that their timeline for 2.0 was for more ramped out progress in May. But we are still surely making small bugs fixes and big already discussed implementations here and there. Hopefully it won't be too difficult. 