---
layout: post
title: Week 6 Project Evaluations
---

Due by the end of Sunday (March 3)


The different projects that I have looked at so far have been all within my domain of interest. A lot of people did the groundwork for other project evaluations so I did not have to look and do too much work. MaterialUI and shadcn are some of my favorite open source projects as I am really into UX/UI based projects since they do a lot of the more menial work for the frontend. They also solve a lot of the issue with having to deal with complicated front-end frameworks. Pandas, scikit-learn and matplotlibs are also projects that have piqued my interest since they are all things I have used prior, I am glad to see that they are quite easy installs since they are in python and not much else 
<!--more--> is required other than perhaps some depencies. For my second project evaluation, I look at decidim which is supposed to help with the integration of software and open democracy but it turns out that ruby on rails just doesn't really install well on non-unix devices.

I think in terms of what I am most excited about I am very much looking forward to working with a team of people on a specific project and managing that aspect. I really like the project managing aspect of team work from syncing schedules to setting up meetings. Furthermore, I want to see how I can contribute and peer write code with other peoplle in my group. Learning from them will also be a good way for me to improve upon some of my goals of having my coding skills improved especially in an open source project that I am interested in. I am also looking forward to having contact in one way or another with the main contributors of some of these projects. I really am looking forward to seeing that LGTM comment from someone. That will be an very amazing event.

Some of the biggest challenges coming ahead for sure is for everyone in my group to be up to speed with everything. To counter that I plan to have weekly meetings or two weekly meetings to make sure we all know what we are doing. I am probably going to set up and trello board and have everyone's google calendars once we team match. Furthermore, learning the codebase is going to be especially challenging for larger projects if we do those. I think that is a challenge that I have to overcome and learn because it will be important in the future on the job if there is a large codebase. I think it is also good to understand one as that skill will build on. I also plan  to look around for resources to find things that can help me and my team.

Overall, super stoked and excited about the projects and project matching. Hopefully, I can be successful and get my PRs merged. Hopefully my team will do a lot of amazing work for whatever project we choose!