---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - We're doing it(?) !!!
---

- So my group (working on p5.js) had several meetings by now and I am glad to report that we are making trenmendous progress in multiple aspects of the project we are contributing to. We finally caught everyone up to speed and I figured out a good environment setup for everyone to run, test, and build the code all within the source files without much editing. We started the week off right after break with attempts to fix smaller bugs so that we can better understand the codebase individually. We initally all individually worked on separate bugs creating different branches on one fork and then claiming issues so that we can submit PRs.

- I personally claimed and am done with an issue regarding image loading on attached graphic. This is my very first PR attempt so I am quite excited to get it code reviewed perhaps and seeing if it is a viable solution. This did really help me understand p5's codebase and syntax/style throughout their source code. <!--more--> I think I have a better grasp of what I am able to contribute on a larger scale now. As planned this was the result I wanted. I am currently waiting for the issue to be assigned and then I will link the PR.

- The process of solving this bug was pretty fun once I solved it but it was also quite frustrating trying to understand thousands of lines of code in a project that I never looked at the sourcecode for. Thankfully their doucmentation was very detailed and the person who reported the bug made it easy to reproduce and I was able to figure the issue was regarding a timer that did not exist for the graphic class that existed for their canvas class.

- My groupmates are looking at other issues and they too are now understanding the codebase better. I believe Mathew is working on a feature regarding text input for 3d models and Leo&Robin are looking into a text-alignment issue. Once we all are comfortable we are going back our plan of submitting a project proposal for p5's 2.0 update in the field of accessibility or making a feature that makes p5 more acessible.