---
layout: post
title: Week 3 Git Activity and Extension
---

# My thoughts on Git and working with Git

Make your blog post for the week. Comment on the git exercises we did in class. 
Comment on the work with your team and progress you have made towards 
your first browser extension (what are some problems the group is facing, what good things happened, 
how do you fit into the collaboration, what are your biggest contributions)

- The git activity that we completed in class this week was very helpful and a good refresher for me
  personally I haven't been forking other people's repositories so learning what upstream is was really
  helpful for me to learn how to connect/link repositories together to keep files update to date. I also
  didn't know that git is widely used in some circles now even non-CS people use git for collaboration
  which I didn't know until this week. I think git is a powerful tool that I probably need to get more 
  used to beyond the basic commands that I use for my own repositories as I don't make merge/pull requests
  and instead just commit straight to my repos. I think it was great that Professor Klukowska setup this activity
  for the non-git users too. The newly introduced git config thing for merge/rebase was really interesting too
  as all of us students got to solve and fix the problem in class.

- So I've started working on my extension named "Seshy" with my groupmates and git has been tremendous in 
  version controlling and preventing version conflicts. My groupmates and I create separate branches and before
  merging I will check for any conflicts or issues and it's been nice keeping things separated before merging together.
  I think the key was communication which we did through discord and we scheduled a time to meet to do some work for the
  extension. Our extension essentially tracks the user data in a browser session like clicks, session time, scrolling length
  etc. This was a great opportunity for me to learn how to collaborate with other people on an open source project that
  we all created. We added every file necessary to make it open source that we know of. I believe that we had some trouble
  splitting up work as we can't necessarily work on the file sometimes if one person does a lot and forgets to push it
  to the main repository and keeps it on their local but it all comes to texting each other and communicating a bunch to make
  sure that we are all on the same page. In the end, we did split up the tasks quite evenly and it worked out on different branches
  then merging it all back together on the main. My biggest contributions so far have been making the skeleton for the extension and writing the readme.
  Writing the readme was interesting as I looked at other readmes and used them as templates for what I should write and do. 
  It seems like a number of readmes also included installion instructions and contributing which I made sure to be separate (well at least some parts
  of the installation). Overall, I've been also learning a lot about how extensions work on FireFox from googling and researching
  how to implement my idea for our extension, Seshy. Been a lot of fun!